Cybercrime is a part of Cybersecurity, and we try to tackle most of the problems, that are connected somehow to the crime world.

In Cybercrime we have a lot of "actors", and technically speaking factors that are responsible to decide what is to be done in the realm of cybersecurity

= How it all started =

Fact Sheets:
* Council of Europe Convention on cybercrime
* EU directive on attacks against information systems
* EU NIS directive (old one, 2016)
* EU NIS2 directive (more around 2023)
* Proposal for a directive to combat fraud and the counterfeiting and etc.

= EU and criminal legislation =

There is one interesting thing that will bring up information:
* European union agency for fundamental rights (you can compare it with the human rights, a bit, that are related to like the united nations rights, but they are not *enforced*, or to council of europe, and they actually have enforcement mechanism)

Not everything is EU responsibility, and it is crucial to understand where it applies. It mostly applies in the places where it can be the only source of legislation.

Another actor is CSIRT (CERT is a trademark, that is responsible for incidents, and even BE has it, and you can get it by like buying the license or something.). There are also 2 somewhat forums that are responsible for accepting the CERT

NIS does not only forces your country to do Cybersecurity, but also many other things like sharing information and etc.

There is a very long line of strategy by the EU, and then it is quite a thing, as it contains a multitude of directives that are put in power.

ENISA is also a very important source that is responsible for showing off things related to cybersecurity. It has documents that can teach you something related to Cybersecurity

Do not forget that in the world of reacting to threats, you can have a "fire brigade" and a group that is setting up to understand whether "its a fire or not". For example CERT is a fire brigade, but CyTRIS is deciding whether something is a fire, or going to fire.

= Privacy & data protection =

Data protection means protection of personal data. Privacy, is about something that is related to somebody monitoring me or something.
