= Introduction =

Sometimes we are going to be told something related to the Belgian law. But in international case, we get the European law, or more general!

You have European legislation, and then for it you have:
- Directive (guidlines, and you need to change them to regulations for state laws)
- Regulation (applicable to all member state lawas)

Imagine, that you have different speed limits, but it is different for every state, it is a **member state law**

In our case, we are not allowed to do Ethical Hacking, really

= General data protection regulation =

Privacy - it is about personal information, information that you want to keep of from others.

== Case Study: Tomorrowland (2017) ==

Imagine tomorrowland spending the time to check your identity with the police. That is somewhat runining your "expectation", because you are not expecting something like that - to happen. That is like an invasion, unless you are really able to know, and **expect** that. So this is about expectancy.

Facts:
* Profiling => access denied, because of systematic check, check for possible risk

Questions:
* Security based on criminal records, facts about person
* Screening & profiling, preventive ID control
* Jurisdiction or local authorities?

== Case Study: Jehovah Witness == 

Imagine also Martorii lui Ehova! That is really against you privacy, as they try to become like individuals, but they are an entity for example.

Facts:
* Processing data door-to-door
* Kept like a structure

Questions:
* Collected only in a household?
* Data stored for future visits?
* What data is being processed?
* Who is responsible?

== Case Study: VTECH ==

Imagine you try to expose a company, that they are doing something wrong. If you try and hack them, and show everyone that they do everything wrong, then you are a "criminal". But parents like that the child photos are online and the toys are there. 

This all means that privacy is a state of mind, very subjective, and a thin line

So we care about the Privacy, and Data Protection

= General provisions =

== Objective ==

The regulation applies to everyone! It is also lays down rules relating the processing of personal data and the free movement of personal data.

The regulation protects the fundamental rights and freedoms, of a natural person, and especially their right to the protection of personal data.

The free movement of personal data within the Union shall neither be prohibited for reasins connected with the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data.

This all is about making difference betweek data *protection*, and *privacy*

For example, if the data is processesed - like on the internet - you need GDPR applied to it. If not, then you do not need to (sometimes)

=== Material scope ===

AVG (GDPR) applies to:
* a system where personal data is being processed, wholly or partly by atuomatic means, and is intende (or is) part of a filing system

AVG does not apply to:
* European instituions
* Police, Justice & National Security
* Household activity

=== Territorial scope ===

Controller based in EU

Controller located outside EU:
* Person is in the EU
* Specific processing:
	* Offering goods
	* Observing behaviour of those involved
	* Within the EU

= Definitions =

Definition for every legislation - is a base.

You need a base, to get everyone in the same ground. The definition, in a legislation, makes everyone to know that they are on the same page.

== Personal data ==

What do we see as personal data? It is about talking about a natural person, an identifiable one

Identifiable means:
* Either by a reference, like name, ID, location data, etc
* Or by a characteristics of the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural

Also depends how easily a person can be identified, and what means are necessary for that, and how long it would take.

Data can be:
* Biometric
* Genetic
* Health

If you are taking somebody's name on the internet, you are actually having issues with the law, unless you do not plan to use that identity as a tool.

Sometimes, to make an investigation, you might need just a small condition. 

You need to keep in mind teh idea that, you need to follow specific regulations regarding processing the data that you capture - like biometrics data.

Like copying the data from a person, is a problem.

== Processing ==

The momemnt you write down data, you are alraedy processing it!

You need restrictions and regulations for that processing.

Also, do not forget that you have *rights*, but *duties* aswell. So that this is regulations and restrictions for the processes that you have.

Processing is an operation, or multiple operations related to personal data, that might be performed by automated means.

Some important facts:
* Restriction of processing - Mark the personal data with an aim of limiting its processing in the future.
* Profiling - usage of personal data to evaluate certain personal aspects about a person, in particular to analyze or predict different things about the person
* Pseudonymisation - processing of data in such a manner, that it can not be adressed to a specific data subject without additional information

== Legal entity ==

Enterprise:
* Natural or legal person
* Engaged in an economic activity
* Including partnerships and associations
* Regularly engaged in an economic activity

Group of undertakings:
* A controlling undertaking
* and its controlled undertakings

== Cross border ==

International organisation:
* An organisation whose subordinates are governed by international law or other body, and that is set up by, or on the basis of an agreement between two or more countries.

Main establishment:
* A controller with establishments in more than one Member state, the place of its central administration in the Union
* A processor with establishments in more than one Member state

Representative:
* a designated (by controller or processor) natural or legal person, to represent the controller or processor in connection with their respective obligations under this regulation

== Actors ==

Controller:
* A natural or legal person, public authority, agency, or other body which determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data.
* It also depends on which law is being used (Union law, or Member State law), as it may determine who the controller is or what cruteria are used to designate him

Processor:
* a natural or legal person, a public authority, a department or another body, that processes personal data on behalf of the controller

Recipient:
* Somebidy that the personal data is provided to

Third party:
* Not being the data subject, controller, processor, persons, that are authorised to process the personal data under the direct authority  of the controller or the processor

== Authority ==

Supervisory authority:
* An independent public authority established by a Member State

Supervisory authority concerned:
* A supervisory authority involved in the processing of personal data because of different means.

= Principles =

== Principles for big data application ==

They are crucial to know inside out

* lawfulness, fairness, and transaprency - (lawfulness) means thaht you have a legal ground to do something because of a law. right for freedom, speech, and etc is a right, but also you have duties. (fairness) means that you are being fair in what you do and (transparency) means that you know what is happening behind the scenes.
* purpose limitation - if you capture the name to make sure that you attended the class, it is cool. But if you start sending messages or ads to that person - that is out of purpose
* data minimisation - get only information that is NECESSARY, and COMPULSORY
* accuracy - you need to capture the data properly (like get the name properly)
* storage limitation - for example, i dont want to store the data for longer than i need
* integrity and condifenctiality - feel like everything stays the same, and in terms of the class (information), stays in the class

== Case Study: Predictive policing ==

Imagine that police uses the AI to understand what will be the next crime, commited by who, and who would be the victim.

=== Types ===

In such a case you have a problem of types. You have a problem of typing the situation, and understanding a lot of information that might influence the case investigation and "profilling"

The typing, is a problem that is based, for example, on the previous crime facts from the past. By using the previous information, you can do some risk assessment.

== Case Study: Jobnet ==

Imagine that you want to apply for a job, and then you are also asssessed by the AI as an example.

In that case, it would be 2 different facts that decide whether you are suitable, or not. In one case, it would be the paper written, in another one it would be a speech. 2 different cases, give different advantages, against you, or with you.

=== Bias ===

Both cases studies are based on some bias. To minimize that, you need to take a look at the situation from differnent aangles and perpscpectives. Then, you might be able to assess the situation better.

This is where you start the need for Big data (meaning that you do not need only small or certian characteristics).

The better is the quality of the data, the better you can make a better assessment

= Lecture 2 =

= Lawfulness of processing =

* Consent - if it related to marketing, it needs consent
* Necessary for the performance of a contract - that means that you have obligations
* Legal obligation - somebody is obliged to process data for example
* Vital interest
* Public interest - same as the next one, and it means that it is in the interst to take care of data.
* Llegitimate interest

== Consent ==

The moment you do not want to give your consent, that moment allows you to be erased from a database, for example. 

This is all about marketing, and it really means that it is about moments that stop to need you consent. Sometimes, that does not even relate.

Definition:
* Freely given - real choice and control for those involved
* specific - aimed to ensure a certain degree of control and transparency for the person concerned
* informed - transparent, proper and lawful
* clear when explained on a website for example (explicit) - proving consent, withdrawal of consent should be as simple as given, should be lawful.

=== Points for attention regarding consent ===

This is where you have different points to be mentioned, when asking for consent.

Children:
* Information society services
* Direct offer to a child
* Age
* Children's consent and parental responsibility

Scientific research

The rights of data subjects

Special categories according to Art. 9

== Necessary for the performance of a contract ==

This is related to a sitation where the processing of personal data is necessary, in which the data subject participates.

Example:
* Processing of address data, when purchasing somethin online
* Credit card details for processing of order

Or maybe the processing takes place before a contract is concluded.

There are also a bunch of articles that are supposed to be respected, as well as agreements and etc.

Summary: Privacy in the workplace
* Electronic communication data:
	* Broad interpretation
	* Regardless of the carrier
	* Data transmitted or received by the employee
	* Within the framework of the employment relationship
* Eligibility requirements:
	* Finality principle
	* Proportionality principle
	* Transparency principle

Privacy in the workplace:
* Collection of information:
	* Global data
	* Logging of time spent on the net
	* The websites visited
	* Mail volume
* Individual data collection with the aim of assigning the collectively collected data to a person
* Or via direct individualisation (allowed if the control has a certain objective)
* Or via indirect individualisation (permitted without prior information phase and compliance with finality)

== Legitimate interest ==

The processing is necessary for the legitimate interests of the controller or of a third party.

In short:
* Involves a balancing of interests:
	* The processing is necessary for the legitimate interests of the controlleror of a third party
	* except where such interests are overriden by the interests or fundamental rights and feedoms of the data subject which require protection of personal data,
	* in particular where the person concerned is a child.
* Documenting the balancing
* Examples:
	* Fraud prevention
	* Direct marketing
	* Processing in company groups
	* Network and information security
	* Transmission of personal data in the context of judicial investigations

== Legal obligation ==

The processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation incumbent on the controller

Please note:
* The existence of a law does not always mean that is is a legal obligation. The detial of the activity clarifies this.

== Vital Interest ==

The transfer is necessary for the protection of the vital interests of the data subject or of other persons, if the data subject is physically or legally incapable of giving consent.

In short:
* Mainly in case of life-thretening events
* Incapable of giving consent

== Public interest ==

The processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller

Only possible for public authorities, when fullfiilling their duty to the citizen.
