You first need to think about the assignment, and understand what you need to do. You need to use the skills. We need to first think about a what we need to build, and then apply our prior skills for the assignment. We will need to make 2 flowcharts, one that is responsible for the data flow, and one for the network.

The assignment is worth 30% of the total grade for the DPITL

We will have:
* exercise - 30 (GDPR)
* exercise - 30 (Intellectual property)
* GDPR exam - 10 next week/lockdown browser
* Attendance - 10
* Final exam - 20

= Intellectual property =

== Introduction ==

The principle is that you have freedom of enterprise and copy

It allows you to exploit intellectual creations

It neeeds to be original, and exclusive, and proved that it comes from you. Like an idea from a head, being written on paper

== Domain name ==

Each device connected to the Internet, is assigned an IP, and in order to make the Internet a a user-friendly, you give a name to the website

The principle of registration is first come - first serve

Without any prior check

You need to first check if the IP is available, and then you might even have disputes with the court to check if the domain will be give to you, or not.

CyberSquatting, is about having the mitigation of domain names that are similar to the one that you have, to avoid typos. The domain name should be similar, it needs to be unfair advantage.

A website can be taken down, because it is malfunctioning, and then the domain name can be even taken away, after 6 weeks.

== Portrait right ==

It is the exclusive right to your image. 

The main rule about a picture, is consent.

The consent can be given either via rules, or via the consent that a person gives.

The actions that you make, might give the consent automatically and hence allow to take a picture of you.

The consent can be implicit. You can also ask for example, permissions to post photo on Facebook.

Permission:
* Freely
* Certain
* Unambigously taken
* Specific
* Both explicitly and implicitly

To make the photos legal, you need to gather some information that will allow you to make it legal.

For a child, the consent is given by the parent

There are many more things that need to be considered when talking about consent and what you can, and what you can not post. Additionally, it depends on the means of the photoes that are taken.

== Copyright ==

Imagine that if a photo is taken by a non-human - then you cannot claim copyright over it.

To claim copyright, you need to make a unique, concrete, original piece of document.

If you also have sources of information in your documents, you need to add those sources

The copyright can be claiimed if it is some kind of art, made by a human. It can be something like music, blog, video, tweet 

There are multiple rights to acquire copyright, and you need to know them:
* Concrete form - no mere ideas or concepts no matter how genious, but the execution of that idea is conrete.
* Original form - originality or genuieness, human creation and author's own intellectual creation, intellectual creation (bears the author's personal stamp, like the choice of the lightning and setting in a photo, or style of writing)

When talking about the acquisition of copyright over the work made by an AI, that is really exceptional, and nevertheless that the AI is a "tool", you can not really acquire copyright over it, as it uses references, duplicate of other answers, unclear sources/protected texts/works

There is:
* Moral rights:
	* Protection of the personal link to work (right to make work public for the first time, to be recognised as an author, to oppose changes to the work or the context)
	* Does not pass to heirs
	* Right is inalienable
* Property rights (right to reproduce work, such as making a copy, or earning from the job. This right is transferable):
	* communication to the public
	* permission of the author is always needed to share the work
	* right to compensation
	* copyright rolls
	* exceptions (like the parody, meaning the work has *clear* difference from the existing work. The work must contain humour or mockery. Also embedding of media is allowed if the content is legally public.)

To use the copyrighted work, you need to get the right to use the art that you are trying to get

We are looking at software the same way as we look at the book

You can acquire the right of copyright after a certain duration, which is 70 years. After this amount of time, the work enters the public domain.

=== Copyright reform ===

Text and data mining exception:
* Automated analysis technique that analyses works and other material in digital form to generate infromation
* Only for scientific research by well-defined research organisations

Publisher protection:
* Publishers of press publications get exclusive rights for online use of an article for a period of 2 years.
* Link tax (fair and proportionate remuneration to publishers in exchange for the use of press publications, including excerpts)
* Exception - non-commercial use, hyperlink

Greater responsibility for online platforms themselves:
* Obtaining consent, via a license agreement for example
* Self-liability for infringements under certain conditions

=== Copyright contract ===

No contract?
* Principle: author remains owner of copyright
* Exception: software/database create by employee

Two possibilities:
* Transfer of certain property rights
* License of certain property rights

Always in writing:
* Copyright contract; broader agreement clause; clause in the invoice conditions
* Rule of evidence for the protection of the author

=== Copyright software ===

Protected object:

Computer programs:
* Applications, video games, etc.
* Also preparatory (design) material

Protection only for "manner of expression of computer program"

The developer = author (unless done under employment contract)

It is also allowed to reproduce, adapt (translate), publicly communicate, and distribute the software

=== Open source ===

* The source code is freely available at no additional cost
* The source code can be reused in new software

There are also multiple catergories of licenses, and it is important to read them. For example, if you see the license *GPLv3*

=== Databases ===

There is a specific protection regime for databases

Database:
* Collection
* contains works, data, or other independent elements
* Systematic or methodical arrangement
* The data can be retrieved separately (search function)
* The database shall be accessible by electronic means or otherwise

How are databases protected?
* Database law:
	* protection of the producer
	* requirement of substancial investment in terms of data acquisition, control of data content, or data presentation
	* data retrieval
	* re-use of data
	* can also be protected by copyright if meets copyright conditions
	* data itself does not have to be origianl, but its choice, arrangement, selection or ranking must be

== Trademark ==

It is used to distinguish some of the function from one to another. Like signs used to distinguish goods or services of one company from the goods or services of other companies

All signs need to be sufficiently distinctive and can be accurately represented, to be eligible for trademark registration regardless of the type of sign

There are different classes for a trademark to be registered in. This is important to keep in mind.

The registration of trademark is done with competent authorities. Also, there is of course a price to be paid for the registration.

=== Protection conditions ===

Absolute grounds for refusal and invalidity:
* Signs tha cannot consitute a trade mark
* Requirement of distinctive character
* Admissibility
* Certain marks consisting of the shape or other characteristic of the goods
* Misleading marks
* Weapons, flags, emblems of state
* Geographical indications

Relative grounds for refusal and invalidity:
* Availability

== Patent law ==

Exclusive right to exploit *inventions*

There are criterias for a patent:
* Needs to be a technical invention
* Applicable to industries

Acquisition?
* Patent application (at one of the needed authorities)

Right to take action against subsequent acts:
* Direct infringement (commercialisation, same technical end result)
* Indirect infringement (supply of means/material to reproduce an invention)

Moral right to paternity

Patent term: 20 years

Can you get a patent on software?
* Sofware as such - No
* Technical invention incorporated in software - Yes
* What about AI and ML?
	* Machine learning - mathematical method
	* Mathematical method excluded only as such
	* Chat GPT - inventive
