= General course introduction = 

Teachers:
* Daan  Pareit
* Koen Koreman

THis course:
* Forensics process & HDD/SSD fundamntals
* Volunmes, partitions, bootloaders
* Windows File System
* Linux File systems
* Windows OS forensics
* Anti forensics & data carving
* Forensics automated tools
* Guest lectures

In PREMA -  we look for memory analysis

In NSP - we look more for network analysis

The work load is 75h

= Evaluation =

* Uploading labs, with reports, personal screenshots, completing quizzes (every lab need to be finsihed and submitted in 2 weeks) - 33%
* There is no chance for a second resit with labs
* Quizzes are infinite
* The exam - 67%, and is a multiple choice question style
* No guess penalty
* Similar to the labs information
* No pratical part, but based on information from labs
* Make sure to respect the disclaimer

= Part 1: The forensics process =

It is the use of science and technology to investigate and establish facts in criminal or civil courts of law

The goal of computer forensics is to explain the current state of a digital artifact. We are trying to find artifacts, not evidence! This is like finding something that happened on a certain hardware, at some time, and aetc etc.

Forensics is first and foremost - *a legal process* and it should be replicable

Forensics - the use of science and technology to investigate and establish facts in criminal or civil courts of law

It also has a bunch of different branches it can go in

Computer forensics is a branch of digital forensics, and the goal of computer forensics is to explain the current state of a digital artifact.

The main goal of computer forensics is to find facts, by discovering and exposing the artifacts (traces of activities and events, and the evidence is the "fact" that it happened ~доказательство)

Forensics is a legal process, so while working, you need to take care of a variety of legal concepts and precedents, such as chain of custody, spoilage of evidence, dealing with production of evidence in court

The science of forensics is combined with the art of investigation

== Digital forensics vs Incident response ==

This two are usually grouped together, but they still require their own skills

Incident response
* Goal: determine a quick reaction to an immediate threat or issue
* Data: typically requires a short-term data source
* Specialized skills: quick response/reaction, interaction with various departments and etc.

Digital forensics
* Goal: it is a part of a legal investigation
* Data: typically requires older and broader data source
* Specialized skills: interaction with legals, reproduction of findings, presentation of findings


At the same time we try to get a grip of the incident reponse, and then combine it with the digital forensics and then we get the idea of *DFIR* 

There are multiple parts of forensic process:
* Acquisition - getting sometghing for investigation
* Analysis - checking the information itself
* Presentation - trying to replicate the investigation results

The process of digital forensics can be broke down in 3 categories:
* Acquisition - collection of the original media, creation of duplicates, maintaining good records of all actions taken with any original media
* Analysis - actual examination, the identification (get to search for the small artifacts of interest), analysis (investigation of artifacts), interpretation (understanding, based on a lot of factors)
* Presentation - showing the gathered results with the interested parties, or party

== Two types of forensics analysis ==

Postmortem:
* Evidence system is turned off
* Remove hard drive, image with writeblocker
* No risks that external threat can change the evidence
* Risk of an error in the imaging process

Live:
* The system is running
* Run a program to capture data, in ram or hard disk
* Useful to capture malware in RAM
* Recover passwords from RAM
* The system might be remotely wiped
* Data may get overwritten 

== Tools ==

=== Write blockers ===
This are devices that block any information from being written to the acquisitioned device
This can be physical, or software driven

=== Disk imagers ===
They produce an exact, duplicate of the original data
They have built in write blocker
Capable of handling damaged and unstable drives
Case management tools

=== Shielding === 
There exists Faraday bags, which block any incoming signals to the device

There are tools like write blockers, that disallow you to write anything to the disk anymore, and that is very important to keep the information intact.

Disk imagers are also a great tool to make sure that you take a copy of your disks (software and hardware wise)

The mobile forensics is also very interesting as it has its own tools, and something more like the faraday bags for the phones which blocks the radio signals and etc.

= Part 2: HDD & SSD funamentals =

== HDD ==

There are some component parts of the HDD:
* Spindle
* Magnetic platter
* Arm (reads the platter)
* PCB
* Actuator
* Magnetic head
* Actuator arm

The sector is the smallest part of the HDD, which then formates the cluster, then tracks (around), and then the cylinder

A sectore size is usually 521 bytes! Normally, they can diverge from different HDD to each one.

To understand how much space you have, you can check out the LBA (Logical Block Addressing) and then multiply it by * 512 and then you get the value of bytes/bits

It uses magnetic storage to retrieve data and store it, as well using one or more rapidly rotating disks

Magnetic storage is the storage of data on a magnetized medium using different patterns of magnetization

The smallest data measurement - sector (512 bytes), cluster (many sectors), track (a whole circle of clusters), cylinder (many tracks over all the magnetic disks)

Each disk might have physical, and logical bytes per sector. It can be 512bytes, or 4096 bytes (4KB)

Disks use Addressing (LBA - Logical Block Addressing). You can find out how many sectors you can have on the disk by a formula. And get the storage space if you do it nr of sectors * 512 or sector size

== SSD ==

They use integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data persistently

SSD have no moving mechanical components

These can be in the 2.5 Sata format, or M.2 NVMe or sata aswell.

The basic element of the SSD is the NAND cell. THe SSD's are also having such a thing as TBW which is the amount of time that it takes to exhaust it.

This TBW is actually related to loading the cells with electronic charges, which means that the electrons can not transfer after some time. Then the load was divided into multiple values, like TLC, MLC, SLC. That specifies how many states a bit can have. Hence, the SLC is the most reliable, while TLC is the least one. 

Each cell of information can have different states based on the actual type of memory for the SSD. For example you can have TLC (Triple level Cell), MLC (Multiple level Cell), SLC (Single level cell). The less the number of levels, the more the cell will stay alive, hence demagnetize less fast.

Pages - are the minimum unit to write

Blocks (multiple cells) - are the minimum unit to erase

SSD also do wear levelling, and an explanation of that is like that:

Imagine you have 2 pages. You start writting data to the first page, and the right one is remained clean. But then, you also start erasing data from that first page, and hence some of the pages become "dirty". After that, to make everything clean, the SSD will transfer the data from the left part, to the right part (where nothing was written, and fully erase the left page, and hence make it impecably clean.

In order for data to be permanently cleared (and not leftover anyhow), the TRIM command is used
