= Relationships =

Relationship is an association among two or more entites.

Relationships are used to document the interaction between entities.

Relationships are usually verbs. They provide useful information that could not be discerned with just the entity types.

For example, a Member wants to *borrow* a game, or reservate, or check out, or review.

Hence, between these 2 entites, there will be a middle entity, which will connect the one to another.

== Relationships degree ==

The relationship degree is the number of entity types involved or participating in the relationship.

The relationship is usually noted as a line, or maybe even a separate entity.

= Role =

The role of a relationship type may additionally name the purpose of the entity in the relationship.

= Participation =

The participation constraint of a relationship specifies the number of instance of an entity type that can participate in a relationship.

= Cardinality =

The cardinality of a relationship is a constraint on a relationship indicating how many instances of an entity type can relate to one instance of another entity type.

= Participation and Cardinality =

The participation of a relationship defines the minimum number of related entities on a relationship (0 or 1). The cardinality defines the maximum number of related entities on a relationship (1 or more).

Usually we first define the participation, with a circle, or vertical line. Then, we make the cardinality, which is represented via a vertical line, or 3 lines to the entity.

Usually, between the entities we say how many of each other we can have, and in between we have relationships, which can be upgraded to a proper entity, and interconnect both entites in between.
