= Introduction =

Today we were gathered all together at the Leuven campus, to get an overview of the needed project to aid the local football team.

The main idea:
* Use the provided data, to create a clustering/filtering system, to aid the Football team (OH Leuven), with different tasks.

Such a task for my team is identifying the players that are worth trying to be tested in the academies of the main football team, and endure some extensive training to then be able to get drafted into the main team. Such an action is usually called "scouting", as the main idea is to get to find as many possible talents, and give them a chance to prove themselves.

My team today gathered to get an insight on what we have, and what we need to deliver.

== Our goal ==

The goal of our particular project is to determine a way to filter the given data in such a format, that it will aid the further developers to intergrate some of the features into real life.

We were allocated certain amount of data, which contains extensive statistics about the players for the attacker position from various teams, like Belgium, Netherlands, England, and others. The data includes a variety of characteristics about the player, including physical features, and football related data.

Additionally, we were handed in some calculation tools that are able to select and filter data, that being scripts in Python programming language, which make it easier for our team to decide upon which values are most important to get the right answer, or as accurate as possible.

Current stage of our project can be outlined as *Recon*, as we are getting acquainted with what we were handed, and what we can and should do with. The teams goal is to get on track as soon as possible and do the best to find some amazing solutions for the general problems, as the deadlines are not far away, and we are limited in time.
