= What does it truly mean if people say: "computers work on 0's and 1's"? =

Generailly, such a sentence might mean that the computer works by understanding machine code, or even lower level, that being the electrical currents that go through the CPU. But overall, the main idea is that a computer accepts requests from someone (that being an application for example), decides on the priorities, and gives output when it is needed.

GPT says: When people say "computers work on 0's and 1's," they are emphasizing the binary nature of digital information and the fact that all the complex tasks a computer performs are ultimately carried out by manipulating sequences of 0's and 1's at a very low level. The binary system provides a simple and reliable way to represent and process information in the digital world.

== What is a "framework"? ==

In the context of software development and computer programming, a "framework" refers to a pre-built structure or set of tools that provides a foundation for developers to build upon. It is essentially a reusable set of libraries, code snippets, and conventions that can be used to develop software applications, making it easier for developers to create robust and maintainable software.

In simpler words - is a standart that a developer would have to use and obey to. Think of React for Front-End - it is a framework, and you make it work by creating components and making it work as the creator thought of it.

== What is a "library"? ==

In the context of software development, a "library" refers to a collection of pre-written code, routines, and functions that developers can use to perform common tasks or add specific functionalities to their own programs. Unlike a framework, which provides a more comprehensive structure and set of conventions for building an entire application, a library is generally a more focused and modular set of code that can be utilized for specific purposes.

In simpler words - its a functionality that can be used inside a framework or something like that, which enlarges the possibilites of your program.

Like python - without the libraries - its mainly empty, but by addding them, you enlarge your possibilities.

== What is the difference between a compiler and an interpreter? ==

A compiler will transform all the code of a program into machine code, and then give an executable as output.
It is also more memory eating, and faster!

The interpreter will read line by line, and then execute it asweel.
Requires less memory, but is overall slower.

== What type of programming languages exist? Why are some called high and others low-level programming languages ==

Programming languages can be broadly categorized into high-level and low-level languages based on their level of abstraction and proximity to machine code. The distinction between high-level and low-level languages is primarily related to how closely the language instructions map to the hardware architecture of a computer.

In simpler words, the closer the programming language "talks" to the hardware, the lower the level. So, a C language will be lower level, rather than python, as well giving in much more control over what is supposed to happen.

== What is the difference between assembly code and machine code? What is disassembly in this context? ==

In summary, machine code is the lowest-level representation of instructions that a computer's CPU can directly execute. Assembly code provides a more human-readable version of machine code, using mnemonics to represent instructions. Disassembly is the reverse process, converting machine code back into assembly code for analysis or reverse engineering purposes.

In simpler words, machine code is representation of everything in bytes/hexes. Assembly is a "readable" version of that, that gives information of what is happening like memory allocation or address transition. Disassembly is used for reversing the code that is generated for the purpose of reverse engineering.

== What is PCB (in hardware context) and how are electronics and logical gates related? ==

In summary, the relationship between electronics and logical gates lies in the fact that logical gates, implemented using electronic components like transistors, form the basic building blocks of digital circuits. These circuits, in turn, are designed and implemented on PCBs to create electronic devices with specific functionalities.In summary, the relationship between electronics and logical gates lies in the fact that logical gates, implemented using electronic components like transistors, form the basic building blocks of digital circuits. These circuits, in turn, are designed and implemented on PCBs to create electronic devices with specific functionalities.

In simpler words, a PCB is almost like a CPU, which can transsform electrical circuits into code and results. Hence, by opening and closing a gate, there might be different results like 0 or 1, and hence by generating multiple choices like that, a device can work.

= Give 5 names of different Operating Systems (flavors) =

* Windows
* Linux
* macOS
* UNIX
* Android

== Which families are still common today / most used? ==

Windows, Linux, macOS

== How old are they? ==

What a useful question - OLD AS FUCK

Up to 50 years (like in UNIX case), 37 years for Windows, 30 years for Linux, 20 years for macOS, and like 13 years for Android.

== What is a Linux distribution? ==

A Linux distribution, often abbreviated as "distro," is a complete operating system built on the Linux kernel along with a collection of software applications, libraries, and system tools. The Linux kernel is the core of the operating system, and a distribution adds additional software components to create a functional and usable environment for end-users.

Overall, it is just a piece of software built over the Linux kernel, with its own way to do stuff, but overall the main part stays the same.

= Give a definition for "Operating System" (in a classic sense and as defined in this course) =

A OS is a piece of software, that is responsible for managing system reources, manage priorities of processes and give hand in the resources those ask for.
In a more classic way it would also be responsible for managing users and etc.

== Do a microwave, a fridge or a classic Game Boy have operating systems? (Note: we are not talking about smart fridges or microwaves ;) ==

No, traditional microwaves, refrigerators, and classic gaming devices like the original Game Boy typically do not have operating systems in the same sense as general-purpose computers or smartphones. These devices often operate with simpler embedded systems or firmware that is specifically designed to perform their dedicated functions.

OS is ususally between a user and a hardware. In this case, it does not really work like that.

== Explain the difference between virtualisation, emulation and simulation? ==

* Virtualization - creates virtual instances of resource to improve resource utilzation and flexibility
* Emulation - mimics the behaviour of one system on anotherm allowing compatibility with software or devices designed for the emulated system.
* Simulation - involves creating models to study the behaviour of systems or processes for training, testing, or analysis.

== What is a mainframe? ==

A mainframe is a powerful and high-performance computer system that is designed for handling large-scale computing tasks and data processing.

Overall, this most probably referes to something like ultra computers.

== What is/are the primary goal(s) of an OS? ==

* Be the manager!
* Some functions of the OS:
	* Booting
	* Memory management
	* Loading & Execution
	* Data security
	* Disk/device management (hardware management)
	* Process management
	* Avoid same requests at the same time (locking)

== Why is there a new way of looking at "Operating Systems" (in a cloud / micro service / more modern sense)? ==

In summary, the evolution of computing paradigms has led to a new way of looking at operating systems. Modern operating systems must be designed to manage distributed, dynamic, and heterogeneous environments, providing solutions for resource abstraction, orchestration, security, and automation in the context of cloud computing, microservices, and other contemporary technologies.

Overall it just means that you need more of a smaller and faster environment to deploy something like a microservice, because there is not enough time to manage the dependencies for the program itself.

== Explain the difference between User space and Kernel space? ==

In summary, user space is where user applications run with restricted privileges, and kernel space is where the operating system's core components execute with higher privileges, managing system resources and providing essential services. 

Overall the User space is a restricted space for the program and everything it needs to use. Whereas the kernel space is the daddy which just listens for the calls.

= What are system calls? =

System calls are a mechanism by which a user-level program requests a service or resource from the operating system's kernel. They provide an interface between user space and kernel space, allowing applications to access functionalities and features that require elevated privileges or direct interaction with the hardware. 

Overall, this is like sending a function to the kernel to execute (which is predefined) and then you can sue the values you get.

= What are drivers? =

Drivers, in the context of computer systems, are software components that enable communication and interaction between the operating system (OS) and hardware devices. They act as intermediaries, translating high-level operating system commands and requests into instructions that the hardware can understand. 

Overall they just act like a layer between a dumb user and the hardware, transoforming giberish into readable instructions for the hardware itself.

= General Computer History =

== What made Pascal so special ? ==

* Simplicity and Readability
* Structured Programming
* Data Structuring
* Portable and Compiler-Oriented
* Educational Use
* Safety and Reliability.

== Why are people like Charles Babbage and Ada Lovelace so critical in the evolution of (modern) computers ? ==

Charles Babbage and Ada Lovelace are critical figures in the history of computers because of their pioneering work on the conceptualization and design of early mechanical computing devices. Their ideas and contributions laid the groundwork for the development of modern computers. 

Overall they were important simply because they were the pioneers in the realm of computers.

== Was there ever such a thing as a non-electronic computer ? ==

Yes, there have been non-electronic computers, and early computers were entirely mechanical or electro-mechanical in nature. Before the advent of electronic computers, various ingenious devices were designed to perform calculations, automate tasks, and solve mathematical problems. 

== How did Alan Turing win the war ? ==

Alan Turing played a crucial role in the Allied efforts during World War II, particularly in breaking German codes and ciphers. His work at Bletchley Park, the British codebreaking center, significantly contributed to the Allies' ability to decrypt encrypted messages, gather intelligence, and gain an advantage in various military operations. 

Overall he most probably been helping with the Enigma codes I should suppose.

== Which functions does a punch card have for a computer ? ==

Punch cards were an early and fundamental method of input for computers, especially during the mid-20th century. They served as a means of providing data and instructions to computers. 

So overall if a whole would be in the wrong place - everything would go brrrr!

== What do we mean when we talk about the Von Neumann bottleneck? ==

The Von Neumann bottleneck refers to a limitation in the processing speed of a computer system caused by the traditional von Neumann architecture. The von Neumann architecture, named after the mathematician and computer scientist John von Neumann, is a design framework that describes the basic structure of most modern computers. It includes a central processing unit (CPU), memory, and a bus system for data transfer.

The bottleneck arises from the architecture's sequential nature and the shared use of the same bus for both data and instructions.

Overall, you are just trying to send too much data on a single path which is not designed for those ammount of data at the same time.

== How does Moore's Law impact your cost of digital living? ==

Moore's Law is an observation made by Gordon Moore, co-founder of Intel, in 1965, stating that the number of transistors on a microchip doubles approximately every two years. This observation has been a driving force behind the rapid advancement of computing power over the years. While Moore's Law specifically refers to the growth in transistor density, it has broader implications for the cost and performance of digital technologies.

= A Matter of UNIX = 

== Why was Unix made at all ? ==

* Portability and Compatibility
* Development for Personal Use
* Support for programming
* Simplicity and Modularity
* Networking capabilities.

In summary, Unix was created as a practical, lightweight, and portable operating system to address the shortcomings of existing projects like Multics. Its design principles of simplicity, modularity, and portability, along with its support for software development, contributed to Unix becoming a foundational operating system and a precursor to many modern operating systems.

It represents a base for many other OS's that are using the same principles.

== Why was Dennis Ritchie a crucial element in the evolution of the computer ? ==

Dennis Ritchie was a crucial figure in the evolution of computing, and his contributions, particularly in the development of the C programming language and the Unix operating system, have had a profound and lasting impact on the field.

Overall he just worked on creation of UNIX and C programming lanugage.

== Who was Ken Thompson ? ==

He is renowned for his contributions to the development of the Unix operating system and the creation of the C programming language. 

He, as the previous one, is also known for making the C programming language as well as UNIX

== What was the role of the evolution of B & C in the creation of Unix and subsequent OS? ==

In summary, the evolution from the B programming language to the C programming language played a pivotal role in the creation and development of the Unix operating system. The combination of C and Unix not only influenced subsequent operating systems but also shaped the programming landscape by providing a powerful and portable platform for software development. 

A combiination of both gave the freedom to create further applications.

== What are the core principles of the Unix Philosophy ? ==

* Small is Beautiful
* Make each program do one thing well
* Write program to work together
* Use test as the universal interface
* Provide a mechanism, not a policy
* Avoid captive UI
* Portability and efficiency
* Store data in flat text files
* Use software tools in preference to hardware tools
* Keep it simple, stupid (KISS)

== Why is worse (sometimes) better in modern OS? ==

"Worse is Better" is a design philosophy that contrasts with the traditional "The Right Thing" approach in software and system design. The concept was introduced by Richard P. Gabriel in his essay "Lisp: Good News, Bad News, How to Win Big" in 1991. This philosophy suggests that a system that is simpler, more limited, and potentially "worse" in some aspects can be better overall, especially in terms of adoption, usability, and practicality. This idea has been observed in the development of some modern operating systems

So overall, if there is no code, there is nothing to break. Hence this principle works the same way.

== Sketch the three main family lines that evolved from Unix ==

* System V family
	* Solaris
	* HP-UX
	* AIX
* BSD family
	* FreeBSD
	* OpenBSD
	* NetBSD
* Linux family
	* Ubuntu
	* Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)
	* Arch Linux

== What is POSIX? ==

POSIX, which stands for Portable Operating System Interface, is a family of standards specified by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) for maintaining compatibility between operating systems. The goal of POSIX is to ensure that software written for one operating system can be easily ported to other operating systems that adhere to the POSIX standards. POSIX standards define the application programming interface (API), command line interface, and utility interfaces for operating systems.

Overall, it is just a principle of maintaining the system working over other systems that are also falling under the POSIX basics.

== What is UTF 32-16-8 ? ==

UTF-32, UTF-16, and UTF-8 are different character encoding formats used to represent Unicode, a standardized character set that assigns a unique numeric code to each character from virtually all known scripts and writing systems of the world. These encodings are methods of representing these numeric codes in binary form.

== What is GNU? ==

GNU, which stands for "GNU's Not Unix," is a free and open-source operating system that was initiated by Richard Stallman in 1983 as part of the Free Software Foundation (FSF). The goal of the GNU project is to create a Unix-like operating system composed entirely of free software, where users have the freedom to run, study, modify, and share the software.

== What is a distro? ==

As said in one of the questions, it is maily a set up with software and everything else, but based on the same plain Linux kernel which represents an OS to run for the users.


