= Introduction =

Malicious software on your phone!

Most of the types work only for mobile devices, like banking trojans. It is important to know for the exam what types of shit you have!

There are such things as subscription scammers and they subscribe you to something.

Mobile ad fraud is an atempt to scam the ad advisors.

Adware is malicious software that places unwanted advertisements on the screen.

SMS Trojans send SMSs to premiou numbers so users have to pay for each SMS.

Most of these trojans have only specific targets

Spyware is a type of malware that collects, uses and spread personal or sensitive information without the user's consent or knowledge. In this case, it does it in smaller doses, so it is harder to detect if it is there.

= How does malware gets on device? =

Users can download malicious apps from an app store

Use of 3rrd party services and etc.

Downloading APK files and etc.

Attacks of supply chain.

Hacking OS vulnerabilities.

= Discover malware =

Signs of malware:
* Seeing a lot of ads constantly
* You install an app, and then the icon immediately dissappars
* The battery is draining much faster
* Use of a lot of data
* Signature based detection (like the hashes and sequence of bytes on PC)

= Create malware =

Use metasploit exploit

msfvenom

Payload: android/meterpreter/reverse_tcp

To build APK - Build > Build bundles/APK(s) > Build APK

You can write manually malware in your application (but you need to do something useful or more advanced), then you can do a metasploit session (for bonus), and then you can try to inject malware in another application (bonus bonus nahui)

The evaluation:
* 15 minutes
* Show application
* Show code
* Questions regarding Frida (write like a full script), BurpSuite, APKTool, Malware
* Code explanation
* A few theoretical questions
