Mobile Security

Week 3: Android - ADB - ROOT

We are going to talk about Android and how it works. This is about connecting to the device and doing something with debugger, and rooting.

= Mobile Security? =

The mobile application pentest conecentrates on following items:
* Client-side safety
* Filesystem
* Hardware
* Network security

Many mobile app bugs - are web bugs in disguise

Mobile security is not "difficult", because it is similar to the web browser bugs, as it also works with same things

= Key Areas in Mobile App Security =

* Local Data Storage
* Interaction with the Mobile Platform
* Code quality and exploit mitigation

seen in other modules

* Communication with trusted enpoints
* Authentication and authorization

= Mobile environment =

We got Apple and Android

iOS
Android
Windows 10(11)
Windows 10 Mobile (maintenance only)
Blackberry OS (maintenance only)
Tizen OS (Samsung)
Chrome OS (for devices)
watchOS (Palm/HP)

== Types of Applications ==

PWA (Progressive Web Apps), Native Apps, Hybride Apps

=== Native Application ===

Native apps are specific wirtten for an OS. Ususally do not interact with internet or web views

* Faster than others
* All device functionality possible
* Native look and feel OS

Examples:
* Clock
* Calculator
* File manager 

=== Hybride applications ===

Hybride apps are a combination of native views and web views (PWA).

They can be installed like a native app, but they also use PWAs, but can be used offline

 ==== WebView ====

This is a component, which allows you to have more control over the UI and advanced configuration options that will allow to embed web pages in a specially-designed environment for the app.

It also allows you to display web content as part of your activity layout, but lack some of the features of fully-developed browsers.

 ==== Hybride frameworks ====

React Native
Flutter
etc.

=== PWA ===

Progressive web apps

* A website that looks, feels and behaves like a mobile app
Can take advantage of native features of HTML5
* No need to develop for different platforms
* Can leverage on your existing HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

* Not available through app stores
* No access to all native features

== Start Mobile Pentesting ==

Step1 : Intelligence gathering is the most significant step in a penetration test

Architecture understanding
Mapping the application

Step2 : assessment of the intelligence with the correct tools

File ssytem analysis
Package analysis
Decompiling

=== Vulnerability Analysis ===

===== Static analysis ===== 

The applicaiton is not running, and all we got - is the executable. You analyze the code

==== Dynamic analysis ====

The main objectie of dynamic analysis is finding security vulnerabilities or weak spots in a program while it is runnning

Dynamic analysis is conducted both at the mobile platform layer and against the back-end services and APIs, where the mobile app’s request and response patterns can be analyzed.

We are also going to use Frida, to manipulate the program.

==== Standard Web Bugs ====

SQL Injection
Direct Object Reference
Improper authentication/authorization
Insecure uploads

= Android =

Android is based on Linux, so it has a Linux kernel. It is a software stack with several layers.

It is also built up upon different drivers

The Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL) defines a standard interface for interacting with built-in  hardware components

Andoid Runtime for Apps

API Framework for othe activities

All the code is getting compiled to Dalvik (.dex) using a compiler, and then running

== APK Files ==

Most important part out of here - is the manifest, with the information inside of itself.

== Data storage ==

Both Android and iOS provide secure creedntial storage for saved logins

If an app does not use this API, its likely the app is using something else.

Android just needs to know where all the data is getting stored, and hence it would go and take a look at what is happening.

= ADB =

Android Debug Bridge (ADB), allows our laptop to talk to mobile devices (you can even connect your phone to the PC).

ADB provides a lot of functionality.

You can open shells, even as root

`adb root`

`adb shell`

Or get information about the battery

`adb shell dumpsys battery`

Or push files to the device

`adb push file <file> <place>`

Or get a screenshot 

`adb shell screencap <place>`

# Android bootloader

A bootloader is a vendor-proprietary image responsible for bringing up the kernel on a device.

You can flash custom things to your device.

= Root the device =

There are frameworks that allow you to give root permissions to your system, which makes something only related to the root system.

Rooting gets you to the bottom of your os. You get root privileges on the device

This means:
* Access to the entire OS
* Remove and replace the entire OS of the device

There are 2 ways to root the device:
* Systemless
* System root

Systemless:
* Only the boot partition is modified
* OS is >= Android marshmellow
* Cleaner
* Bypass Google SafetyNet

System root:
* System partition is modified
* Manufacturer can notice
* Old way

To Do:

[Apk] Labs
[Apk] Rootchecker

[Lab] Introduction
[Lab] Rooting


